Introduction To web services.

The term web service is either a service offered by an electronic device to another electronic device, communicating with each other via the World Wide Web, or a web service implemented in the particular technology or brand, W3C Web Services.

The Web technology such as HTTP—originally designed for human-to-machine communication—is utilized for machine-to-machine communication, more specifically for transferring machine-readable file formats such as XML and JSON.

So a service provide or server and the client communicate by the use of WSDL and UDDI.
WSDL-Web Service Description Language is an XML based interface used to describe the functionalities of web services.so tools and programming languages are used for WSDL for completing client server deal.

WSDL files are stored in a registory or directory present online where consumer sends his query and searches for the web services is called UDDI i.e. Universal Description Discovery and Integration.

There are 2 types of web services.
1.SOAP
2.REST

SIMPLE OBJECT ACCESS PROTOCOL:

The SOAP services are interfaced in XML format.
Set of rules how web services and messages will be take place from server to client. 
SOAP web service format consists of envelop, header(optional) and body.


REpresentational State Transfer:

It is an architectural style and has no strict principles/constraints like soap.

REST architecture has;

Uniform Interface: 
Resources- you can define any information,module as resource.
URI-data or modules are accessed by unform resource identifier
HTTP methods- CRUD i.e.create,read,update,delete by using http methods like get,post,put,delete along with URI to access/modify resources.
Every resource can be represented by html,xml or json.

Stateless:the restful web services does not keep the client state or previous interaction state on the server.

Cacheable:the response of the client is stored on the client side and the server uses client control and headers in order to complete the task

Layered System: it can have multiple layes b/w client and server like proxies and gateways,
		proxy server is uesd by client which simplifies and controls the complexities of a 			request.gateways are use by server for managing traffic etc. 

Code On Demand(optional):ability to download and execute code on client side.



